For our next lesson, we're going to talk
about Conducting Passive Reconnaissance.
Here is the outline of our lesson: (1) we'll be
talking about passive reconnaissance techniques;
(2) we'll talk about the terminologies and
the (3) we'll be talking about preparation
for the next steps. First is Information
Gathering. It is a process of identifying,
discovering, and obtaining information that
may have relevance to the penetration test.
Second is OSINT or open source intelligence. An
actionable information that has been gathered
from freely and publicly available sources.
Next is whois. It is a protocol
that supports querying of data
related to entities who register public
domains and on their internet resources.
This information is available
to anyone who queries databases.
Next, information can also be coming
from the organization's website.
Marketing sites have the potential to be the
OSINT. Most sites have the "About" page. These
marketing sites provide a following information
such as high profile personnel, upcoming events,
forms to be filled out, user forums, additional
contact information and links to social media.
Social media can also be used
for passive reconnaissance.
Most organizations have some
presence on the social media.
Rich source of information about these individuals
can be found such social media sites like Twitter,
Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube,
Instagram and Reddit may be used.
On job boards, job posts may reveal
information about the personal structure,
technical environments, and more.
Every employer on job posts needs to entice
and provide enough information to prospective
applicants amount and type of information
given is dependent on this industry and job.
Next is Google Hacking. It is a
process of using google search engine
to identify potential security weaknesses. It is
also not considered hacking in a strict sense.
You may extract information from a typical
search. It includes special search operators
to provide more focused results such as site,
link, filetype, intitle, inurl and inanchor.
Information can also be found
in online articles and news.
It can provide insights about the target
organization. Usually, larger businesses are
featured by mainstream news outlets while
smaller businesses issue press releases.
It will not always reveal what you need to know.
This should be a conjunction with other OSINT.